Since its launch in 2020, Discovery Bank has seen strong deposit growth and considerable traction of its shared-value banking model, so much so that it hit the 1-million mark in bank accounts. The bank  recently announced this milestone and also introduced exciting new products such as: Vitality Pay as you Gym, the Discovery Account and enhanced travel benefits such as  access to The Lounge at SA airports — through a strategic partnership with SAA. “The bank has scaled quickly and built a  powerful digital banking and technology capability. This is now being deployed as the de facto operating system for the Discovery Group in SA. Discovery Bank’s digital payments technology, advanced security features and shared-value rewards represent a unique opportunity to deliver new products and digital services to all clients,”  says Hylton Kallner, CEO of Discovery Bank. The bank has firmly established itself as the leading digital bank in SA, operating a full-service branchless bank through its app that caters for the full spectrum of the retail market — driving high levels of client engagement, utilisation and value. This value is reflected in the  1-million accounts being held by  more than 450,000 clients, with more than  R11bn in deposits and R4.5bn in credit advances. During a product update briefing with financial advisers, the bank announced its latest enhancements: Vitality Travel was launched in March this year, offering a single and convenient booking platform that incorporates travel partners, discounts and other travel services through Discovery Bank. Since its launch, Discovery Bank clients are saving up to 31% per flight. With the complete rewards and personalised experiences that Vitality Travel offers, Discovery Bank makes travel as convenient and relaxing as possible for clients. The following new benefits are now available for Discovery Bank clients: Discovery Bank will offer Vitality Pay as you Gym to all clients, including those with a Discovery Account. It’s easy to use and clients can access more than 170 Virgin Active and Planet Fitness clubs nationwide. Clients simply go to a club, scan the QR code at the entrance, pay the access fee of between R75 and R100 (depending on the facility) from either a Discovery Bank transaction account, credit card or using Discovery Miles, and enjoy their workout. As an introductory special offer, Discovery clients can make unlimited use of Vitality Pay as you Gym for free between June 20 and July 31 2022 and get a free smoothie after their first visit. Discovery clients who don’t already have a bank account now have exclusive access to the Discovery Account. It is a digital banking account with  zero monthly fees that is easy to activate. Clients can access their full Discovery product portfolio on the app and also have access to the following benefits: “With all of the new services and capabilities, the goal is to enhance clients’ banking, travel and payment experiences, and enable Discovery Bank to be the operating system for all clients and products.” Other notable innovations since launching Discovery Bank include: Discovery Bank is revolutionising banking, combining innovative technology and leading digital capabilities — with the group’s understanding of risk and behaviour change — to create a new category of banking centred on shared value. This unique approach is driven by Vitality Money, which measures how well clients manage their money: the higher their Vitality Money status and the greater the value they receive. This article was paid for by Discovery Bank.