Police and intelligence forces are on high alert following social media messages of a national shutdown over fuel prices which is planned for Friday. There has been messages circulating, particularly among public transport users, of a national shutdown to protest against the rising fuel prices that have forced the taxi industry to increase its fares. Col Athlenda Mathe said police have started preparing for any eventuality. “The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS) met on Wednesday, 8 June 2022, where they were briefed by the Intelligence Coordinating Committee (ICC) on the validity of the call for a national shutdown. The Intelligence community is closely monitoring the situation and the associated risks. “With this said, law enforcement officers have been deployed and are on high alert to prevent and combat any forms of criminality. The respective provincial joint operational and intelligence structure have been directed to ensure multidisciplinary deployments and that the necessary contingency plans are in place,” Mathe said. Col Athlenda Mathe said those who are behind the posters circulating on social media must know that no one has a right of prohibiting people’s freedom of movement. “Members of the public are therefore cautioned against spreading such messages that seek to mobilise communities to respond to the shutdown,” Mathe said. The messages of a national shutdown have been circulating after the country faced yet another fuel hike. On June 1, the price of 95 octane unleaded petrol rose by R2.33 a litre, while 93 octane unleaded petrol went up by R2.43 a litre. Diesel and illuminating paraffin surged by R1.10 a litre and R1.56 a litre respectively. However, the SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) has already distanced itself from the shutdown. “Santaco has never lobbied any organisation for a national shutdown, and not even planning any shutdown. We still, however, hold the strongest view that there’s an urgent intervention needed from government and this despite looming taxi fare increases,” the taxi organisation said on its Twitter page. LISTEN | Santaco distances itself from national shutdown amid speculation