Eskom on Wednesday said while some workers  had started reporting for duty at  power stations, there  was still a high level of absenteeism. As a result of the unlawful strike, routine maintenance work  had to be postponed. “This backlog will take days to weeks to clear. It is  important to note that the system will remain constrained and vulnerable to additional breakdowns while recovery activities are in progress,” it said. Due to the protests, which caused widespread disruption at power plants, it was unable to return some generators to service. “This has compelled Eskom to continue taking precautionary measures to conserve emergency generation capacity and safeguard plants from damage.”  There remained a risk that the stage of load-shedding may have to change at any time, depending on the state of the power plants. “As previously communicated, stage 6 load-shedding will be implemented from  4pm until  10pm this evening [Wednesday]. Stage 4  will  be implemented from 10pm to midnight. “Load-shedding will be reduced to stage 2 until  5am on Thursday morning. From  5am until  midnight on Thursday, load-shedding will be implemented at stage 4,” it said. Stage 2  will be implemented  from midnight until  5am on Friday morning. Eskom  had 3,161MW on planned maintenance, while another 17,395MW  was unavailable due to breakdowns. “Eskom pays tribute to and thanks those many employees who keep going beyond the call of duty and continue to help keep the lights on during this very challenging time. “Eskom  thanks our municipal partners who tirelessly implement  load-shedding according to schedule. “We also  thank the members of the SA Police Service who  play a key role in ensuring  disruptions of law and order  are minimised at power stations during the strike.” It has appealed to South Africans to help limit the impact of the shortages by   reducing  usage  and  switching off  non-essential items. “We  remind the public that load-shedding is implemented  as a last resort to protect the national grid. We urge all South Africans to continue using electricity sparingly.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.