Delays in obtaining DNA results, ballistics and cellphone records have pushed  the trial of three men  accused of the kidnap-murder of IT graduate Hillary Gardee to next month. The bail application by one of the accused, Sipho Mkhatshwa, has also been delayed by a month. Prosecutor advocate Ntsika Mpolweni told the Mbombela court the state required a postponement because they still need to finalise DNA results, citing a backlog of about a week at the laboratory as their machines had broken down. They are also waiting for ballistic reports and cellphone records analyses. “The Cyber Crimes Act prolongs the process to obtain cellphone records,” Mpolweni  said. The  director of public protections still had to make a decision on whether the case  would be tried in the regional or high court. Counsel for two of the accused, Philemon Lukhele and Mduduzi Gama, opposed the state's request for a postponement. “The last time the state asked for a postponement, giving the same reasons as today [Thursday]. It is with regret that they want to do the same thing they asked the last time. No circumstances stated by the state warrants a postponement,” advocate Nqobizitha Mlilo said. The state  could not arrest people without concluding the necessary investigations. “The state cannot put hurdles  in the way of accused 2 and 3. They need to be heard. A person charged must be tried in a reasonable time.” Mlilo said in circumstances of an “unreasonable delay”,  as in this case,  the court should conduct an inquiry on when the state  would finish investigations. Magistrate Annemarie van der Merwe  granted the state's request for a postponement, saying the state gave an explanation on the reasons for the delay and she was pleased there was an undertaking to expedite the process. “The court is aware that a four-week postponement is never enough to finalise some of the expert reports.” She  instructed the state to ensure that at the next appearance the outstanding matters  were finalised and a decision  made on which court  would handle the trial. The partly heard bail application of Mkhatshwa,  whose lawyers quit on him at the previous appearance,  has been postponed to July 7. Van der Merwe ordered all three suspects  to be assessed by a doctor and any injuries  recorded. This  after allegations were made by the accused that they had been assaulted by police after their arrest. TimesLIVE