Police minister Bheki Cele said the first  three months of the year were brutal and unsafe for many South Africans as he announced the quarterly crime statistics on Friday. During that time SA was marred by more sexual violence, murders and  assaults  compared to the same time last year. Presenting  the figures in parliament,, Cele said contact crimes  increased by 15%, which included murder (up by 22.2%) and  sexual offences  (up by 13.7%). Rape  also increased by 13.7%. Cele asked during his presentation: “What went wrong?” At a meeting with  provincial police commissioners they agreed  provinces, districts, clusters and police stations “need to do things differently if  we want to see desired outcomes”. This would start with minor to major changes, including improving  work conditions of officers. “Ensure the availability of the required tools of the trade to respond to crime and rooting out officers who choose to intentionally fail the communities they are meant to serve.” There was a trust deficit  in some community relationships, and  50% of the solution to crime was through better working relations with the community. “Police officers cannot police communities they are not part of. But equally, we are aware that trust is not bought, trust is earned.” To address this, he announced a new drive called the “station accountability plan” which would  introduce accountability at station level to “address the dip in performance”. It started from the top down. Commanders were expected to: “It is a fact that the SAPS has thousands of hard-working and dedicated officers who  daily  put their lives at risk in the execution of their duties. “Unfortunately, there are police officers who  are failing communities. The failure often starts at police stations.” The plan would ensure  police stations were not scenes of secondary victimisation “by our own”. There were now gender-based violence (GBV) desks at 1,154 police stations. The desks would be staffed by GBV-trained officers as  more than 90,000 officers had been  trained in victim empowerment, domestic violence and sexual offences-related programmes. This would ensure a victim-centred service was provided. The plan was expected to be implemented immediately and especially in the top 30 high crime stations. Cape Town Central police station had the highest incidence of reported crime, with 2,653 reports in the first three months, an increase of 1,720  last year. Second was Honeydew station in Gauteng with 2,149 reports and third, Durban Central with 2,037. According to the new plan: vetting and monitoring of members had to be speedily undertaken; crime intelligence had to be beefed up at station level; Cele said  police had to rebuild relationships with communities. “The SAPS cannot be a haven for criminals disguised as officers of the law. Service delivery in the context of this organisation can mean the difference between life and death. “Interactions with communities on their safety concerns and policing needs, through the ministerial imbizo programme, continues to assist the SAPS in improving its services to communities. “Without fail, the complaint about the slow response of police comes up far too often ... It is the lived experience of community members who are far too often told there are no police vans to come and attend to their policing needs. The police vans are usually out of action.” Asked by the media if the plan indicated that police stations were not held accountable, Cele said accountability had always been there but “not sufficiently”. “Most commanders are off on weekends, but if you check the crime pattern, this is when crime is up.” A commander was like a parent and should know how officers were doing and where they were. “Communities say they don't even know who the station commanders are.” TimesLIVE