The Durban University of Technology (DUT) has blamed police inactivity  for another “violent” protest at the institution on Thursday. Alan Khan, DUT senior director of corporate affairs, said the university had given the police a tip-off as early as Wednesday about the imminent protest. DUT announced  it would  temporarily  close four campuses in the city — Steve Biko, Ritson, ML Sultan and City — until further notice due to the protests. “The protesters  not only violated Covid-19 protocols but  also damaged property and traumatised staff in what was a well-orchestrated, violent attack.” DUT advised  affected staff to use the employee wellness office for professional support and assistance after  the traumatic events. Khan confirmed that the academic programme will continue online while the four campuses are temporarily closed with immediate effect. “Staff who are based on the affected campuses will work remotely and only essential services staff will be allowed access to the four campuses.” Residences have not been affected so far and the university is  monitoring the situation. It will evacuate residences should it detect potential risks. “The university will closely monitor the situation and will not hesitate to evacuate the residences, should it be necessary, based on the potential risks for our students, staff and university property. Staff and students will be notified when the Steve Biko, Ritson, ML Sultan  and City campuses reopen.” Provincial police spokesperson Col Thembeka Mbele confirmed the police are investigating a case of malicious damage to property. “It is alleged that on  March 24  at  5pm about 500 students gathered and stormed into the campus. They  stoned security guards and  damaged windows before they left.” Khan was disappointed  the protest had not been prevented, saying: “Despite the university’s appeals to the  police for assistance, DUT was unable to prevent these attacks, even though law enforcement was notified as early as Wednesday about the planned protest.” Sibongumenzi Mdlalose, DUT EFF  Student Command (SC) secretary in Durban, told SowetanLIVE's sister publication TimesLIVE  they had a mass meeting with students to update them on their progress regarding issues with residences and allowances. He said although they don’t support the violence that happened afterwards, they cannot control how students show their anger. “As an organisation we do not appreciate any form of violence or distraction. Having said that, we will always be on the side of students as their representatives. Ours is not to police their anger and how they express it. We can’t control how they revolt.” The university has been plagued by violent protests since the beginning of the year.  Students are aggrieved mainly by the online registration process and delays in National Student Financial Aid Scheme  funding. The university  reopened  three campuses this month after they were closed  when three staff vehicles were torched at Steve Biko Campus in February, a number that has since increased to more  than 10. It was granted a court interdict against its entire Students Representative Council and EFF SC members from protesting near any if its campuses. DUT registrar Dr Maditsane Nkonoane told the portfolio committee on higher education, science and innovation that they had spent close to R1m on  security due to alleged poor police and public order police support since the beginning of the year. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.