Having enjoyed a  successful career as a player, Springbok and Sharks legend JP Pietersen hopes for another great spell as a coach. The 2007 Rugby World Cup winner called time on a 16-year playing career in February 2021 and  moved into coaching the Sharks’ junior teams. Pietersen  earned himself a quick promotion to the ’ senior sides as he is  assistant coach of the Currie Cup team, since December, working hand-in-hand with the experienced Etienne Fynn as  head coach. “The first year of coaching is never easy, I think you can prepare yourself as much as you can, but the transition from player to coach is always not going to be an easy one,” said Pietersen on Wednesday. “But I’ve played the game so much and I can understand what the players are feeling and want to get out of training. “It’s only my second year and now I’ve been involved with the Currie Cup team, coaching with Etienne. “I think [Fynn]  has been coaching for more than 20 years, what a guy to learn from. And  to experience the calmness  he brings to our coaching staff. “He understands the game  well and I’m benefiting more from Etienne. I hope I am helping him  with my coaching.” Pietersen, 35, and Fynn have enjoyed a smooth start with the Sharks’ Currie Cup team. They have won  their three matches in the domestic competition so far and are at the top of the Currie Cup log table with 14 points. Pietersen, who also played in Japan, England and France, aims to help youngsters  at the Sharks  be as successful as he was and  be better prepared if  they become Springboks. “Before I retired as a player I used to share my experience with other players about different situations they may encounter. “You  need a player to feel for the game and understand the game for themselves. But  it’s only my second year as a coach and I’m still learning a lot and whatever feedback I can give to players I do. I try to communicate as much as possible with the players so that we can have a good understanding.” The Sharks will be hoping to extend their Currie Cup  run when they visit the Pumas at Mbombela Stadium in Nelspruit, Mpumalanga on Friday at 7.30pm. 