Gauteng MEC for health Dr Nomathemba Mokgethi says the increase in admissions of mental health patients at  Helen Joseph Hospital (HJH) can, among other causes, be attributed to poor socioeconomic circumstances aggravated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Responding to a legislature question, Mokgethi said the hospital has recorded an increase in the number of mental health patients, with some  coming from outside the hospital’s feeder area. She said the increase is due to  large-scale use of illegal substances and the unwillingness of some families to take back members with mental health illnesses upon discharge. Mokgethi said the temporary closure of sections of Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital  has also contributed to the increase in the number of patients. “As at January 2022, HJH had treated 876 patients in the emergency department compared to 80 in January 2021,” said  department spokesperson Kwara Kekana. In  wards 2 and 3, 1,395 people were treated  compared  with 620 in 2021, and the outpatient department  treated 520 patients compared  with 244 by January 2021, Kekana said. Kekana said  measures are being  introduced at Helen Joseph to ensure the provision of care for the growing number of mental health patients. She said these include   increased bed capacity  and repurposing a temporary structure to house more patients. “The hospital is also liaising with  psychiatric wards in other facilities to transfer patients whenever there is capacity.” Mokgethi  pleaded with families who refuse to take back their loved ones with mental health illnesses to work with  government and welcome their family members with care when discharged from health facilities. She  said more needs to be done at  health facilities, and noted the provincial government is making efforts to ensure  all facilities are up to standard. Mokgethi visited the newly opened psychiatric ward at Bheki Mlangeni District Hospital in Soweto last week. “We are making efforts to ensure  psychiatric wards across our health facilities meet the standards and regulations of the Mental Health Care Act. The wellness of mental health patients is our  priority, thus the  installation of 24-hour security cameras to monitor and ensure patient safety,” said Mokgethi. TimesLIVE