Fitness fanatics will be happy to know the latest and best range of Huawei smartwatches, packed with innovative technology to help you reach your fitness goals, is here. The Huawei Watch GT 3 series is available in SA and if you’re looking for a watch that can keep up with you and guide and improve your active lifestyle, look no further. The three watches which form part of this series, the Huawei Watch GT 3 in 46mm and 42mm and the Huawei Watch GT 3 Runner, have everything you need and more. Here is what this smartwatch series is all about: The Huawei Watch GT 3 Series is a personal trainer on the wrist. It records and analyses your workout data and intelligently identifies your basic, lifting, consolidation and reduction periods according to your current athletic ability and goals. It then adjusts your training intensity, gradually increasing it so that your strength and speed improves over time. The Huawei Watch GT 3 Series comes with an upgraded workout monitoring feature that provides over 100 workout modes. These include 18 professional workouts, 12 outdoor workouts such as running, walking, mountain climbing, hiking, cross-country running, cycling, open water swimming, triathlon, skiing, snowboarding, cross-country skiing and golf. The smartwatch series also includes indoor workouts: walking, running, cycling, pool swimming, free training, elliptical machine and rowing machine. The Huawei Watch GT 3 Series features the latest Huawei TruSeen 5.0+ heart rate monitoring technology. TruSeen 5.0+ uses the very best innovation to monitor your heart rate perfectly, even if it’s changing quickly, when sprinting, swimming or skipping. The smartwatch series also provides continuous, real-time and accurate oxygen saturation (SpO2), sleep, stress and menstrual cycle monitoring features that monitor your health comprehensively. The Huawei Watch GT 3 Runner is Huawei’s first smartwatch designed specifically with the needs of runners in mind. Lightweight and comfortable to wear for extended periods, the Huawei Watch GT 3 Runner offers better GPS positioning and more detailed workout data. These functions make it easier to track your running performance and monitor your progress. All three watches also come with Huawei's new running ability measurement, Running Ability Index, which uses historical running data, including heart rate and pace, to analyse your performance after each session. True to Huawei form, the Huawei Watch GT 3 Series also boasts an innovative look and feel, which is inspired by nature and uses cutting-edge technology. The minimalist lugs, large lenses and lightweight design make the smartwatch series look sleek and futuristic, while also ensuring that it is comfortable to wear. With their impressive battery life, you’re able to wear the smartwatches in this series for days on end. While the Huawei Watch GT 3 46mm and Huawei Watch GT 3 Runner support a 14-day battery life, the Huawei Watch GT 3 42mm supports seven days of battery life — allowing you to monitor your health all the time, even in your sleep. If you’re looking for the next best thing in wearable technology, and the ultimate partner for your fitness pursuits, the Huawei Watch GT 3 Series has the smartwatch for you. You can get a free pair of Huawei Sports Bluetooth Earphones, valued at R699, when you purchase any of the following smartwatches in the Huawei Watch GT 3 series: When you purchase the Huawei Watch GT Runner, you can get a free Huawei FreeLace, in graphite black, valued at R1,499. Select your favourite smartwatch on the Huawei Online Store now. This article was paid for by Huawei.