The Jerusalem faction of the International Pentecostal Holiness Church (IPHC) has accused the police of being “captured” and dragging their feet in investigating  their cases. Hundreds of  the faction's members marched to  police headquarters in Tshwane to submit a memorandum of  demands on Monday. Vusi Ndala, spokesperson for IPHC Jerusalem, accused members of the other church factions of "colluding with police"  and laying unwarranted charges against them. He said  two brothers are contesting for  the leadership of the church. “Some members who are affiliated  to the other factions [are colluding with police]. There are officers and members of law-enforcement agencies who  are abusing  state resources  to fight the factional battles,”  Ndala said. “They work  with rogue police officers. There are police that we believe are captured and they use tactics such as a hasty arrests  on unwarranted charges.” Ndala  called on  police officials  to intervene and fast-track investigations in their pending cases. “We are here  to say to the police minister: can you please assist us in arresting and addressing  these rogue police so that we are not harassed or intimidated? “The cases that we opened since 2018 have not moved at all. We have  over 2,000 cases. However, when there is a case of those unwarranted charges against us, there is haste to arrest and charge,” he said. William Makgabo, an executive  of the church who claimed he was also a “victim of unwarranted charges”, agreed. “There are so many cases that are opened against members of IPHC and they are orchestrated by certain individuals working with police. The minister must intervene in this. There is a serious rot and corruption happening in the department,” he said. The memorandum by the group was accepted by a representative of the police. The IPHC has been plagued by conflict for  years. Divisions  began after the death of leader Glayton Modise in 2016. Since then,  three factions have emerged: SowetanLIVE's sister publication TimesLIVE reported that a group of men stormed the church’s headquarters in Zuurbekom on  July 11 2019 in the early hours of the morning. Five people were killed in the shooting that ensued and police recovered 68 firearms — 17 rifles, 24 shotguns and 27 pistols. TimesLIVE