City of Tshwane mayor Randall Williams says  the “illegal strike” by the SA Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu) seeks to drive narrow political interests and create chaos in the city. “We will not tolerate it,” he said. Williams said this week the city has faced  challenges from small groups of illegally striking workers affiliated with the  union. The city on Thursday said it experienced  outages affecting at least four regions due to the strike. It had announced that the city administration has enlisted the services of law enforcement to escort teams to attend to service interruptions in a bid to clear the backlog. The striking workers this week allegedly blocked non-striking employees from performing their duties, intimidating those who continued doing their work. “This strike is unlawful. It is being perpetuated by small groups of employees who seek to drive narrow political interests and create chaos in the city on behalf of Samwu,” he said. “When the strikes began, Sawmu leadership distanced themselves from these actions, indicating they were not driving this behaviour. This despite pictures circulating of workers carrying Samwu banners. When striking illegally, Samwu  workers forcefully removed their colleagues from their offices, threatened them and destroyed Tshwane property. Samwu leadership were silent. “It suggests one of two things. Either the Samwu leadership  is actively supporting the illegal actions of  members, or the  leadership team has  lost control of the organisation and they exist in name alone. If the latter is true, it is deeply concerning as it suggests the Samwu leadership is no longer effective  with most of its members. “When Samwu communicates with the City of Tshwane, their rhetoric and tone  are inherently confrontational. Insults against the senior management and political leadership are commonly found in their letters.” Williams said this suggests an agenda that is inherently political and not  related to labour issues. “When this illegal strike began, the city mobilised multiple resources and departments to ensure we respond appropriately. This is because it was  clear  most Tshwane employees want to come to work and do their jobs. Unfortunately, Samwu’s actions taint us all. They cast a cloud over all Tshwane employees.” Williams said they will  seek further legal action against Samwu and  its leadership team for contempt of court. “We are also encouraging any employees who were threatened or physically assaulted to  approach the labour relations unit, who will assist  to open criminal cases and  ensure disciplinary proceedings are enacted upon. “We have also identified many individuals  over the past few days who we will  take action against. The city cannot be held to ransom by narrow political interests.” Meanwhile, Tshwane Bus Service (TBS) has withdrawn bus operations in Olievenhoutbosch  until further notice due to   protests the area. City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said on Thursday  night a Tshwane metro police department  vehicle deployed in the area to monitor the protests was pelted with stones and damaged by community members. Bokaba said after assessing the situation this morning, the city decided to suspend bus operations for the safety of drivers and passengers and safeguard the assets, namely the buses. “We will continue to closely monitor the situation and issue an update about  afternoon operations,” he said. TimesLIVE is seeking comment from Samwu and will update this article when received. TimesLIVE