AmaZulu FC coach Benni McCarthy says he has seen flaws in  Moroccan giants Raja Casablanca that make them beatable in the  Caf Champions League  clash in Durban on Friday. The game at Moses Mabhida Stadium is scheduled to kick-off at 6pm and both teams know  how crucial victory is  to boost their quarterfinal hopes. Usuthu and Raja have already met in Group B, with the Moroccans  winning 1-0 in Casablanca. But McCarthy  says Raja’s  2-1 defeat to Group B’s lowly-ranked Horoya of Guinea has given him  an idea of how to approach the  match. “I think it was a morale booster for us to see them  beaten by Horoya. There are flaws in their squad that make them beatable and we went to them for our first game of the group stage and did  well,” McCarthy said. “We played  well against them even though we were  nervous at first, but we played well and  created clear-cut chances. “If we took those chances we could have had a completely different start to our Champions League campaign. “But we didn’t do that and they showed why they are the fourth best team in the continent and why they’ve won the Champions League a number of times and why they are always in this competition. “They are clinical, they’ve a lot of depth and have experienced players  that know how to make it count.” McCarthy will be hoping that his charges do better in front of goals, a department that has contributed a lot to their struggles this season. “ Horoya  beating them, especially with us knowing how good we were against Horoya and how good we were at home against ES Setif,  gave us an indication. “So, if we are a bit more clinical and precisive on what we are doing in the final third, Raja can be penetrated and you can score against them.” Usuthu are  third on the Group B log  with six points and are three points behind Raja, who are at the  top of the  log. Setif are in second place, also with six points,  while Horoya have  three points with two matches to go. The top two finishers of the group will proceed to the knockouts stage. TimesLIVE