In her mission to deliver SA’s first African Women Cup of Nations (Awcon), Banyana Banyana coach Desiree Ellis has asked the SA Football Association (Safa) for preparation matches against some of the world’s best teams. Banyana qualified for  Awcon — in Morocco from July 2 to July 23 — with a 3-1 aggregate win against Algeria in the final qualifier last month. Despite SA being regulars at the tournament, they are yet to win it and their best results have been runners-up on five occasions. This time around, Safa has  told Ellis and her team  they are not prepared to be  second-best. “We pride ourselves with Banyana Banyana and we’ve seen them qualify for the Awcon later this year,” said Safa vice-president Gladwyn White. “We are hopeful and optimistic that this time around they will bring the cup home. We won’t be settling for second-best.” Ellis has held meetings with her bosses where she requested that the  team play warm-up matches against world No 2 Sweden, fourth-ranked Netherlands, fifth-placed France and eighth-ranked England. Safa national executive committee (NEC) member and technical committee chair Jack Maluleka said the organisation had a meeting with  Ellis and her team and  are due to meet again on Thursday again to finalise their plans. “On Wednesday, March 9, we had the first technical committee meeting where they [Banyana] presented their report and proposed a plan for preparations for Awcon and it’s  exciting,” Maluleka said. “There are  exciting teams that were proposed to be part of the preparation sessions. Countries  such as the Netherlands, Sweden, England and France were proposed. “We know  they will grow by playing these strong opponents, because we want to prepare the team for the tournament and as a technical team we agreed with the plan.” Banyana are expected to kick-off their preparations and play  friendlies between April 4 and April 12. Their last preparation will be around June 17 where they might play against Awcon hosts Morocco, Spain, Algeria and Mauritania, Maluleka said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.