There’s a new smartphone in town and it’s packed with the ultimate 10MP camera, supercharge capabilities, creative vlog features and fashion-forward elements — all at an affordable price. Huawei has combined innovative features to bring customers the new and sleek nova 9 SE model, now available in stores. The mid-range smartphone comes with 108MP high-res photography, 66W Huawei Supercharge, a thrilling design and the impressive features of the EMUI 12 — Huawei’s operating system — which makes using the Huawei nova 9SE a lot more fun. Huawei recently answered all your questions about the new Huawei nova 9 SE, which was designed for the young at heart: The Huawei nova 9 SE is armed with a 108MP AI quad-camera system, which consists of a 108MP main camera, an 8MP ultra-wide-angle lens, a 2MP Bokeh lens and a 2MP macro lens. With more pixel intake, the 108MP ultra-high-definition main camera allows you to unleash your creativity. Whether you’re shooting scenery, portraits, architecture or more, during the day or at night, the Huawei nova 9 SE captures what you see in precise detail and crystal-clear clarity. If you’ve been searching for a phone that has a captivating design, then look no further: the Huawei nova 9 SE is for you. The smartphone is equipped with a 6.78-inch Huawei FullView Display that supports the P3 colour gamut display, ensuring a mesmerising viewing experience with smooth visuals, vivid colours and incredible detail. It is also sleek, with ultra-thin bezels measured at 1.05mm and an ultra-thin body that only measures 7.94mm. In addition, the new crystal blue colourway is crafted from 3D glass, creating a glossy effect and clear texture using the dual-film dual-plating nano texture technology. At the back, the nova Star Orbit Ring’s camera module offers a star-like glare refraction that accentuates the refined style of the Huawei nova 9 SE. What use is a smartphone with an exquisite camera set-up and look if it cannot provide you power through the day and night? Whether you’re gaming, playing music, working, or simply browsing the internet, the Huawei nova 9 SE charging time is kept to a minimum, with the support of 66W Huawei Supercharge, which only takes 15 minutes to charge the battery up to 60%, or 36 minutes to 100%. The Huawei nova 9 SE sports impressive features that are ideal for vloggers. There’s continuous front and rear recording, which allows you to flexibly switch between the front and rear cameras to easily record videos from different perspectives. This  feature automatically stitches together the two clips to create one video that shows two perspectives at once. The Huawei nova 9 SE also has dual-view video. With this feature you can film yourself with the front camera and film what is happening in front of you with the rear camera. Alternatively, you can use the rear camera to capture a close-up view and a wide-angle shot simultaneously. The Huawei nova 9 SE also enables you to search for photos and videos, which covers 280 AI-enabled tags and more than 100 action identifications. To look for images or footage to edit, enter the keyword describing the content in the gallery and the Huawei nova 9 SE will perform the search and generate a list of content that matches your description. If you’re into video production, you can take advantage of the Huawei nova 9 SE’s one-click video compilation feature to easily combine multiple clips together to form a social media-ready video. Lastly, when editing vlogs, you can use the pre-installed Petal Clip app on the Huawei nova 9 SE. It provides you with a variety of editing story templates, different video themes, and your choice of music — from Huawei Music — to edit your footage, which can be shared on your favourite social media platform. 5. What are the other cool features  on the Huawei nova 9 SE? With EMUI 12, you can enjoy a smooth experience after using the Huawei nova 9 SE for a long  time. Thanks to One Hop Connection via near field communications (NFC), the Huawei nova 9 SE can pair with other Huawei devices, such as Huawei smartwatches or speakers, intuitively and effortlessly. In addition, with its distributed file system, the Huawei nova 9 SE allows users to access files from a PC. Alternatively, users can send files between the Huawei nova 9 SE and other Huawei devices via Huawei Share. The Huawei nova 9 SE is available on the Huawei online store for just R7,999, which includes a free 10,000mAh power bank valued at R699, while stocks last. T’s & C’s apply. The Huawei nova 9 SE also comes with excellent service benefits, including: T’s & C’s apply to these service benefits. This article was paid for by Huawei.