Convicted cop-turned-serial-killer Rosemary Nomia Ndlovu is  to return to court this month on  new charges. Ndlovu, who was last year sentenced to six life imprisonment terms for killing five of her relatives and her lover, will face three charges of conspiracy to commit murder. She will appear  in the Kempton Park magistrate’s court on April 20. TimesLIVE understands the  new charges involve her allegedly plotting the murder of two police officers, Sgt Benneth Mabunda and Col Nthipe Boloka. Mabunda was the investigating officer in Ndlovu’s case while Boloka was the station commander  at the police station where Ndlovu  worked. They  learnt of the plot  to kill them shortly after she was arrested in March 2018 and  unsuccessfully tried to get bail. Ndlovu is also a co-accused in another matter involving a Norkem Park police officer, Nomsa Mudau, who was arrested for allegedly plotting to kill her husband. Ndlovu is alleged to have connected Mudau with hitmen and  helped her  hatch a plan to kill her husband, Justice  Tshifiwa Mudau. The plan was to shoot Mudau  in his home. These were the same hitmen that Ndlovu hired to kill her sister Joyce Ndlovu and her five children. Instead of carrying out the plot, the hitmen  tracked down one of Mudau's friends and  told him to warn Mudau of the planned hit which was supposed to have been carried out on February 28 2018. While Ndlovu was aware that the plan to kill Mudau had failed, she did not know  this was because the two  hitmen she  hired had foiled the plot and a case had been opened. She again recruited the same hitman and his two friends for the murder of Joyce a week later. This was when a sting operation was set up by police and Ndlovu was arrested after she was filmed taking the hitmen to her sister's house and elaborating in detail how she had wanted them to kill her. Three days after Ndlovu's arrest, Nomsa Mudau was arrested and charged with conspiracy to commit murder alongside Ndlovu. Their case  was provisionally withdrawn in 2019 as police investigations continued. TimesLIVE