The  SA Revenue Service (Sars) is becoming more efficient in tackling tax dodgers, beneficiaries of the proceeds of crime and those involved in corrupt activities, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Monday. In its preliminary tax revenue collection outcome, Sars said  it had collected  more than R1.5-trillion between April 2021 and March 2022. This was a 25% improvement from the previous year. Writing in his Monday weekly newsletter, the president praised the agency for progress it  made in the  past two decades and what he referred to as important milestones  in building a capable state. “Through the R17.8-trillion  Sars has collected since its establishment in 1997, we have been able to build more social infrastructure  such as clinics, schools and hospitals, upgrade and build new roads and support society’s most vulnerable through social grants and other measures,” he said. “When tax revenue collection systems and their supporting legislation are efficient, uncomplicated and equitable, it  encourages greater compliance.” Ramaphosa said tax collection from JSE-listed companies, multinationals and  wealthy individuals is now more effectively managed through  Sars' large business unit, which was relaunched in 2020. The agency, which once grappled with mismanagement, is now well established as one of the most efficient tools to combat corruption, he said. “As a result of  Sars' turnaround, there has been improved compliance in personal income tax, corporate income tax and pay as you earn.  Sars is taking the wind out of the sails of tax dodgers, beneficiaries of the proceeds of crime and those involved in corrupt activities. “In cases where an individual’s lifestyle does not match what they declare,  Sars has been conducting lifestyle audits. In the  past year,  Sars has completed lifestyle audits that resulted in the collection of  R474m.” Restoring the stability and credibility at the revenue service and  other entities was  high on his agenda when he was elected  president. “Like other  important institutions,  Sars had suffered from the ill-effects of state capture, with political meddling, mismanagement and other factors seriously affecting its efficiency. This  resulted in not only undermining taxpayer morality, but also loss of business confidence in the organisation.” In 2018, Ramaphosa appointed a commission of inquiry into tax administration and governance chaired by retired  judge Robert Nugent. In the same year, the Nugent commission delivered its  report which  made several recommendations Sars has since implemented, according to Ramaphosa. “Sars has driven a focused turnaround strategy to position itself at the forefront of efficiency and service excellence. It has a  programme to promote tax morality and compliance." While the leadership  of Sars had to be complimented on its performance, he also hailed loyal taxpayers. “Thanks must go to the loyal  SA taxpayer. Without their co-operation, the latest revenues would not have been possible. That  Sars has expanded the tax base with 1.8-million new registrations over the past year is another sterling achievement. “As we forge ahead with efforts to strengthen the capacity of the state and rebuild institutions that were systematically weakened by state capture, we have much to learn from what  Sars has achieved in a relatively short space of time.” TimesLIVE