The players and  technical staff of the Mamelodi Sundowns Ladies side will share the R1m windfall  received from sports minister Nathi Mthethwa for winning the Caf Women’s Champions League. Mthethwa rewarded the team as part of the department’s Recognition of Excellence programme that recognises outstanding achievements by SA teams and individuals. Sundowns Ladies made history when they won the inaugural Caf Women's Champions League after their 2-0 win over Hasaacas Ladies of Ghana at the 30 June Stadium in Cairo in November last year. “We always make sure  our players and technical team are compensated for their efforts and their sacrifices. There is a way  how money is divided,” said Sundowns chairman Thlopie Motsepe. Motsepe declined to  explain how much each player and the coaches would earn. “As a football club, we always make sure  we create an environment where they can grow and achieve things. When you start mentioning how much money gets given to footballers, the foundation of things sometimes gets undermined. “We always respect money and make sure  we don’t put it in the media. You must remember the kind of country  we live in. You don’t want to start throwing numbers when there are high levels of inequality in our country. “I can assure  we have rewarded them for what they did and Hollywoodbets has also rewarded them .  People who give the money do so to grow the sport and f we don’t want to publicise the figures.” Mthethwa said Sundowns Ladies did the country proud. “Sports also have the power to lift people  in times of turmoil. The example of the Miracle on Ice in the US came at a time when tensions were high in the Cold War between the US and the USSR. “I SA’s 1995 Rugby World Cup victory added an impetus in our efforts to heal from decades of apartheid. My department's recognition and honouring of sport persons and teams is articulated and guided by our National Sport and Recreation Plan  Strategic Objective 8. “This strategic objective acknowledges achievements of individuals within the South African sport and recreation sector. This recognition system further emphasises that as a country it is important that we give recognition to the exceptional performances of our athletes, coaches, administrators, and technical officials.”