It’s staggering to think that more than  half (58%) of the world’s total population is on social media. What’s more, of the globe’s reported 4.5-billion active (frequent) social media users, most spend up to two and a half hours on social media every day. It’s no surprise then that more and more companies are moving their brands online as they realise that data-driven marketing is essential to optimising their marketing budgets and reaching the right customers. Naturally, they need employees who have necessary expertise to help them do so. So, as the demand for digital skills continues to soar, why not invest in the prospects of a digital marketing career? The first step is applying for the new IIE diploma in digital marketing at Rosebank College, which is an educational brand of The Independent Institute of Education (IIE). Digital marketing is not just about creating digital adverts or writing Facebook and Instagram posts: it involves planning, targeting, budgeting, strategising, implementing, and measuring. That’s why the IIE diploma in digital marketing has been designed to equip graduates with diverse skills such as data analysis, social media marketing, search engine optimisation (SEO), email marketing, digital advertising, content creation, as well as basic design skills. This makes them ideal candidates for positions such as digital marketing specialists or social media community managers. Affordable and accessible, this three-year diploma can be studied full time at Rosebank College’s campuses in Braamfontein, Bloemfontein, Pretoria CBD, Cape Town, Durban, Polokwane, Pietermaritzburg and Nelson Mandela Bay. It’s also available online through IIE distance learning for those who want to study and work at the same time. Rosebank College also offers students the opportunity to begin with a one-year IIE higher certificate in digital marketing before progressing to the diploma. This certificate will equip graduates with the skills they need to access entry-level digital marketing jobs. After all, Rosebank College realises that making students employable is essential to ensuring  they have the chance to pursue their dream careers. 2022 applications are now open at Rosebank College. This article was paid for by Rosebank College.