The City of Tshwane’s  public and high-profile disconnection  operation which started on  Wednesday had its origins from Eskom going public about the metro’s debt of more than R630m a few weeks ago. This public statement  made the city realise  it had to do something to recoup what was owed to it by  customers. The city  embarked on an aggressive revenue collection strategy this week, which included  it naming and shaming some  debtors on its social media accounts. City officials then  went out, to begin  disconnecting services to some of the  worst debtors. City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said  time was given to customers over many years to bring their accounts up to date. He said the city realised  the traditional way of doing things had not been working. “After  impassioned pleas to customers to honour their municipal accounts by paying them on time and in full fell on deaf ears, the city  embarked on a campaign to recoup debt owed  by customers by disconnecting water and electricity services,” he said. According to Bokaba, on Monday the city’s debtors book stood at more than R17bn. This was made up of government departments, embassies, businesses, residential customers and other entities. “We decided  it was time to do something different, especially because we are empowered by  legislation to do what we are doing. Everyone needs to understand  the city  needs to pay for the services it renders, just like the Eskom debt,” Bokaba told TimesLIVE on Thursday. This week, the city's  management, led by mayor Randall Williams,  went to some of its biggest debtors to disconnect  services. The exercise has, however, not been without challenges. Bokaba said their teams face  hostility in certain areas, but he said this is something they had  anticipated and their teams are escorted by metro police. Their team was allegedly barred entry on Tuesday to state-owned entity Denel, where they were due to  disconnect for non-payment. “Our team was intimidated by people carrying  machine guns and they were refused access.” He said they  realised  the disconnection could be done at the primary substation. In the coming days, Bokaba said their drive will go to residential customers, and  they expect to receive more push back. “There is a culture of non-payment, but we need to make our customers understand they need to play their part in ensuring  the city renders quality services to them. “Non-payment of municipal services makes it difficult for the city to fulfil its obligation of delivering essential and basic services to its residents and customers,” Bokaba said. He said residential customers owe the city about R8bn, businesses R4bn and the balance of the total outstanding R17bn is owed by government departments, entities and embassies. On criticism that naming and shaming debtors was not the right thing to do, Bokaba said there was nothing private and confidential about people who owe the city. “What you owe us is public information. Eskom called us out a few weeks back for our debt,”  he said. He said  so far, what they had been doing is working and they will continue with this  approach. Bokaba could not immediately confirm how much had been collected, but said the response has been positive because those who owe the city have been coming forward and making payments and payment arrangements in some cases. He  said the city has followed due process before disconnecting  affected customers by serving them with notices and letters of demand. TimesLIVE