Mamelodi Sundowns co-coach Rulani Mokwena has confirmed departing Brazilian defender Ricardo Nascimento declined a new role in the club after his contract was abruptly terminated last week. Nevertheless, Mokwena hailed the veteran left-footed centre-back as a great servant for the club. Nascimento’s five-and-a-half years relationship with Sundowns officially came to an end after the club deregistered him to accommodate Erwin Saavedra as the fifth foreign player in the side. His deal was due to expire in  winter. Nascimento, 35, made no fewer than 144 appearances, winning eight trophies, during his stay with Sundowns, and Mokwena feels he gave his all every time he was on the pitch. “The reality is, when a loyal servant like Ricardo has served you with such distinction, it is only proper that you deal with his departure with the best possible dignity and respect for the profile and his contribution,” Mokwena confirmed to the media after their 2-0 victory  against Chippa United on Monday. “He’s been nothing but a loyal servant. His performances speak only about a player that was always willing to do more than required of him. The qualities that he possessed will be very difficult to replicate, so we’ve got our work cut out as a club to make sure that we get a player with the same sort of technical, tactical qualities, if not better.” Mokwena revealed that they had offered Nascimento a role at the club, but the defender declined as he wanted to continue playing. “I don’t think anybody at the club has got a single bad word to say about him. A gentle giant, a humble soul, someone that’s always wearing a smile on his face, always prepared to do more than required, shows huge determination and perseverance,” he said. “He had two very, very big surgeries, and those did not stop him from being able to recover and to serve this club, and when you have that type of mentality, because you have the right sort of human qualities, it helps you to become a very good football player. “He will always remain a part of our family. He knows that the club has already extended plans for him to stay and to continue in a different capacity.” Nascimento won four Premiership titles, the Nedbank Cup, Telkom Knockout, CAF Super Cup and MTN8 during his stay at the club. He received overwhelming support from the club's fans after confirming his departure on Twitter by stating: “Thanks for the support, Sundowns fans! I really enjoyed and was very happy at Mamelodi Sundowns! Thank you.”