City Lads Ladies of Eastern Cape put Royal Wizards from Northern Cape to the sword as they thumped them 12-3 on the first day of the Sasol League National Championships at King Zwelithini Stadium in Durban yesterday. The tournament had got off to a slow start with two of the first three matches finishing in a 1-all draw. But City Lads finished the day on a higher note as they hammered in a dozen goals to show their intentions early in this competition. Ixias (Free State) and Copperbelt Ladies (Limpopo) started the proceedings, but could not be separated as they only played to a 1-1 draw before TS Galaxy and Tswelelang De’ Scorpion from North West also ended their match in a 1-1 draw earlier yesterday. Only three matches took place from the three groups with the same number of fixtures set to take place again on day two. It was a one-sided affair between City Lads and Royal Wizards as the score line suggests with Royal being undone by some poor goalkeeping by Thandeka Sikonyela and Koketso Kgosidintsi who came on as a substitute at the stroke of halftime. It was City Lads who opened the scoring with the match just five minutes from Onelisa Nanasele before Nwabisa Kolisi doubled the lead a few minutes later. But that didn’t look to hamper Royal as they went in search of a goal and in two minutes they were level. Nosipho Khomari pulled one back before Meriza Jaftha equalised from the spot-kick a minute later. City restored their lead almost immediately through Pumeza Vimbi who slotted home against a run of play. Nanasele completed her brace just after the half-hour mark before Nwabisa Kolisi made it 5-2. It was raining goals as City went into the interval leading 7-2. They continued where they left off in the first half by adding more goals. Nosipiwo Bottoman, Nanasele, Andisiwe Ndesi, Nandipha Booi and Ayanda Njongweni all scored the goals for City in the second half, while Jaftha completed her brace for Royal. Today's Fixtures: Tswelelang De’ Scorpion v Croesus Ladies 9.30am; Royal v Vasco da Gama 12.30pm; Copperbelt v Lindelani 3.30pm.