Cape Town City mentor Eric Tinkler has explained what his new signing, holding midfielder Brice Ambina from Cameroon, will bring to the Citizens. City confirmed the signing of Ambina, 20, yesterday. The highly rated midfielder joins the Citizens from his native Cameroonian outfit Renaissance de Ngoumou. Ambina, who boasts six under-20 caps for Cameroon, penned a deal that will keep him a City player until June 2026. Tinkler, himself a holding midfielder in his heyday, has spoken very highly of Ambina. The Cameroonian will compete with the likes of Thabo Nodada, Taahir Goedeman and Thato Mokeke among others, for a starting slot. “Yes, we can confirm that we signed Brice Ambina. He’s a young holding midfielder from Cameroon. He’s played for the Cameroon U-20 national team. He plays in my position or what used to be my position. I think he’s a highly, highly talented player and I think he’ll be a massive introduction to our team,’’ said Tinkler. “We’re happy to have him on board. His defensive qualities as a holding midfielder are exceptional. He shows good aggression in terms of wanting to win the ball, but then also on the ball he’s technically very good. He’s comfortable and he never panics. He’s also very good on diagonals, so I think he’s a fantastic acquisition for us.’’ Ambina is City’s third recruit in recent weeks, joining striker Mogamat May, who joined from third-tier side Steenberg United and Darwin Gonzalez, a Venezuelan winger who comes from his native club Deportivo La Guairá. Meanwhile, Tinkler appears to be pinning his hopes for goals on May. The 23-year-old striker has already netted in City’s 3-1 win over Sudanese outfit Al Hilal, who are in SA to face Mamelodi Sundowns in the CAF Champions League on Friday, in a friendly tie last week. “He's a natural goal-scorer from what I've seen. He's got a lot of pace and power, so I think he's a good acquisition for us in the striking department. Playing for Steenberg, having a very, very good season scoring 13 goals and  nine assists in 10 games,” said Tinkler of May.