Maritzburg United midfielder Brandon Theron has disclosed that as much as they’ll give the Nedbank Cup a full go, their main focus is on the league. Maritzburg host SuperSport United in the first round of the Nedbank Cup at Harry Gwala Stadium tonight (6pm). The two sides meet again in the league six days later at the same venue. “It’s two different games…two different magnitudes. The first one is a cup and it can go any way and it can even be stretched to 120 minutes [extra-time]. We are going out to win both games but the league is our priority because we need points. To us every game is like a cup final now that we have 12 league games left,’’ Theron explained. The 28-year-old midfielder has called for aggression and camaraderie from his teammates in the second-half of the campaign, having had a somehow poor first-half of the term, where they collected just 14 points from 15 outings. “We have to fight like lions out there. Team spirit and hard work will be key for us if we really want to do well in the second round of the season. Team work is very important; we must stick together and be willing to die for one another,’’ said Theron. Theron expects Matsatsantsa to give them a run for their money tonight, adding they’re ready for the tie as their aim is to use it to gauge their readiness for the second stanza of the campaign after the Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) break. Playing at home also gives Theron added optimism. “SuperSport are one of the giants in the country, so the game will be competitive. It’s a big game but we are well-prepared. We’re ready for the challenge. It’s going to be a good test to see how the second round of the season turns out for us,’’ said the Team of Choice man. “In home games the expectations are high. You don’t want to lose at home. When you lose at home it’s like allowing people to come to your house and take your things. Harry Gwala is our slaughterhouse, we want to bury teams there." Fixtures Today: Venda Academy v All Stars, Thohoyandou Stadium (3pm); Maritzburg v SuperSport, Harry Gwala Stadium (6pm). Friday: Uthongathi v Summerfield Dynamos, Princess Magogo Stadium (3pm); Stellenbosch v Baroka, Danie Craven Stadium (6pm). Saturday: NC Pros v Mathaithai, GWK Park(3pm); City Rovers v Sekhukhune, Olen Park(3pm); Royal v CPT City, Chatsworth (3pm); Sinenkani v FS Stars, Walter Sisulu University Stadium (3pm); Chiefs v Galaxy, FNB Stadium (6pm). Sunday: Gallants v Santos, Peter MokabaStadium (3pm); Black Eagles v Sivutsa Stars, Royal Bafokeng Stadium (3pm).