SA cannot end the state of disaster until it has enough measures in place to handle future waves of Covid-19 infections,  health minister Joe Phaahla said on Tuesday. Phaahla cautioned that  while SA is exiting the fourth wave and there is improved understanding of the coronavirus, the pandemic was far from over. He said  government should not be pressured into ending the state of disaster. “As we are exiting the fourth wave of  infections, everyone is eager for the pandemic to come to an end. The reality, however, is that while we have learned more about the virus, we have more weapons and the virus is seemingly getting weaker, the war is far from over,”  Phaahla said during the state of the nation address (Sona) debate. His response came after  co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma extended the state of disaster by another month. Her department said it decided on an extension after a cabinet meeting in which it determined the extent to which the management of the Covid-19 pandemic  required the implementation of the national state of disaster. It said government had observed from other countries that lifting all restrictions can lead to a rise in infections, and urged South Africans to continue to adhere to non-pharmaceutical safety measures such mask wearing, hand washing and observing social distancing. “Under the current regulations, nearly all economic and social restrictions have been lifted and civil liberties are unrestricted. The country and  the rest of the world are  entering a new phase of the pandemic that requires us to  live with the virus. As we begin this period of readjustment, we should all be guided by the regulations,” said the department. During  the Sona  last week, President Cyril Ramaphosa said  government planned to end the state of disaster “soon.” He urged South Africans to get vaccinated as this was the only  defence available against the pandemic. “We are  ready to enter a new phase in our management of the pandemic. “It is our intention to end the national state of disaster as soon as we have finalised other measures under the National Health Act and other legislation to contain the pandemic,” said Ramaphosa.