Rangers and employees at the Kruger National Park have had their statements taken after a video surfaced of them allegedly abusing  a euthanised leopard. According to SANParks,  custodian of the Kruger Park, four of the nine people seen slapping the dead animal are SANParks employees — three are rangers and one is employed as an environmental monitor.  One person seen striking the leopard was a visitor  to the park. So far, one employee has been suspended pending disciplinary action. “Line management is finalising their approach with respect to other employees who may have transgressed SANParks’ policies and code of conduct,” SANParks said  on Friday. This process will be completed later on Friday Regarding the visitor, SANParks said it “is taking legal advice on sanctions to be imposed on him”. The incident happened on Sunday after an employee from Shalati Concession was attacked by  a leopard. According to SANParks, this was the second  attack on an employee in the park in the same area since June 26. The leopard was shot  30  metres  from where the attack happened. “In line with SANParks’ policies and standard operating procedures on the management of damage-causing animals, a decision was taken to euthanise the leopard to safeguard human life.” On the abuse of the animal's body, SANParks said it “strongly condemns the behaviour depicted in the images captured on video ... Such actions are contrary to the ethos of the organisation whose primary goal is to conserve biodiversity and act as the custodian of our wildlife”. “The actions of these individuals run counter to conservation management and the ethos of the organisation. During the  next week a campaign will be embarked upon among all employees within the Kruger National Park to reinforce these values and ethics. “The organisation commits to managing the outcomes in an open and transparent manner while respecting the requirements of  legislation pertaining to this regrettable incident. “Management is aiming to have a final report completed by Wednesday, July 27, which will make recommendations to the SANParks board on how to ensure  such incidences do not occur again.” TimesLIVE