Convicted serial killer Nomia Rosemary Ndlovu was on Wednesday expected to return to the Kempton Park magistrate’s court where she faces several more charges linked to two separate cases. Ndlovu is accused of plotting to murder the officer who investigated her killing sprees of her own family members,  Sgt Keshi Mabunda. The other officer she is accused of plotting to kill is Col Nthipe Boloka, who was her station commander at the Tembisa south police station where she  served as a  sergeant until her arrest. Ndlovu  is alleged to have plotted the murders of  Mabunda and Boloka from behind bars following her arrest in March 2018. Boloka,  who has more than 30 years of police service, was key in  Ndlovu’s arrest  in 2018. He was allegedly the first police officer to  find out from an  informant — one of the hitmen  she had hired — that she was plotting  the murders  of her family members. Boloka organised  her entrapment, which  involved the hitmen and an undercover police officer who she thought would carry out the  murders of her sister Joyce and her five children by burning them alive in their Bushbuckridge home. Ndlovu confessed  she was desperate for money and  wanted Joyce killed so she could cash in on insurance policies  she had taken out on her sister. It was while on  a drive from Johannesburg to Bushbuckridge that Ndlovu gave  incriminating evidence to the “hitmen”. She was not aware they  were recording the entire five-hour trip. Speaking to TimesLIVE this week, Boloka was reluctant to comment on the pending case against Ndlovu, saying it would be sub judice. He  said during the two years  he worked with Ndlovu, he had seen “amazing things”  at the station. This included  loan sharks who  came to the premises looking for her. “At times she would be reluctant to come to work. At least four or five days  a month she would miss work,” said Boloka, who suspected this was because of her cash troubles and the  loan sharks who were always on her trail. During  the trial in which she was found guilty of murdering six of her relatives, including her lover Maurice Mabasa, Ndlovu  battled to tell the court  how she had spent the almost R1.4m she had received in insurance payouts. The court  heard how she hardly assisted with the burials of her family members. Most were bludgeoned to death  and at least one was poisoned and strangled. After Ndlovu’s arrest for the failed plot  to kill her sister, nieces and nephews, Boloka started  investigating whether there were more cases linked to Ndlovu and learnt of other pending investigations against her. The case eventually landed in Mabunda’s hands. He already had started digging into Ndlovu’s  policies  she had taken out on her family members. In the other case Ndlovu is set to face, she is a co-accused alongside another former police officer, Nomsa Mudau. Nomsa Mudau was also arrested in 2018 after she had allegedly plotted, reportedly with the assistance of  Ndlovu,  to kill her husband, Justice Mudau. That plan was thwarted when  the alleged hitmen  told Justice about the plot to murder him. The two former police officers were initially charged for conspiracy to murder Justice in March 2018, the same month  Ndlovu  was arrested for trying to kill her sister and her children. The case was, however, provisionally withdrawn and  re-enrolled this year. Nomsa has since divorced her husband. The officer, who is out on warning, appeared in court last month heavily pregnant and stood in the dock alongside Ndlovu, who has been behind bars since 2018. Nomsa told the court  she was due to give birth any day. Both women, who did not look  at each other, opted to use Legal Aid. Ndlovu told the court  she was unaware  why she was  there and said she had only been informed the day before of her  upcoming  case. Mudau's ex-husband, Justice, sat at the back of the  gallery  during proceedings. In an  interview ahead of court proceedings last month, he  said he was eager to see justice unfold. Ndlovu is  serving six life sentences for the murders of her six relatives. She was also found guilty of  charges relating to insurance fraud and the alleged plot to kill Joyce and her children. She was also found guilty of conspiring to kill her mother, Maria Mushwana. This was reportedly also so she could cash in on insurance payouts. Ndlovu  pleaded her innocence from the start to the end of her trial. TimesLIVE