The case against a Mpumalanga sangoma and his son who after days of questioning by police were finally charged with the murder of a six-year-old girl has been postponed to June 24 for further police investigation. Samuel Tsela, 63, and his son Philasande Tsela, 28, briefly appeared in the KaBokweni magistrate's court on Tuesday for the killing of Bontle Zethu Ditebogo Mashiyane from Mganduzweni, near Hazyview. They are facing similar charges of rape, kidnapping and murder put to serial offender Collen Hlongwane, 36, his girlfriend Ntombikayise Ngwenya, 40,  and neighbour Thapelo Surprise Ngomane, 25, in connection with the mutilation of Bontle's body, which was found on Saturday. In court on Tuesday, Samuel told the court that he was going to represent  himself while his son said he had a lawyer. "Since I don't know anything about this case, I'm going to speak for myself," said Samuel. Mpumalanga National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Monica Nyuswa said Hlongwane, Ngwenya, Ngomane and the Tselas face an additional charge of dealing in human tissue. She said they would face uniform charges for now and only once individual indictments are compiled will the charges be separated according to the roles each of them played in the case. Bontle went missing on April 30. During his arrest in Edwaleni on Friday, Hlongwane pointed out Ngwenya,  who led police to Ngomane's shack about 100m away from her home. She lived next door to Bontle's home. Ngwenya allegedly revealed to the police that she had killed four other children, including her two nieces –  Silindile, 7, and Ntokozo Sifunda, 6, –  in April 2019. In June 2019, Sowetan reported how the tragic death of the Sifunda siblings led to the killing of a local pastor and his nephew. Pastor Bheki Malomane, 36, and his nephew Wonder Mbuyane, 24, were beaten and set alight by the community. Their houses were also torched after a local traditional healer, who was consulted by the community, ruled that Malomane and Mbuyane were involved in the murders of the two little sisters. Hlongwane, Ngwenya and Ngomane appeared in the KaBokweni magistrate's court on Monday and their case was postponed to June 24 for further police investigation. The father and son also had their case postponed to June 24 when they will join the other accused in the matter. On Monday night, angry community members burnt down houses belonging to Ngwenya, Philasande and Ngomane.