The war in  Ukraine appears to have been at the top of the agenda during President Cyril Ramaphosa and German Chencellor Olaf Scholz’s meeting on Tuesday, with Scholz accepting Ramaphosa’s explanation about why  SA decided to abstain during the  UN General Assembly vote. Speaking during a media briefing at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Tuesday, Ramaphosa was asked if SA had changed its position and why it was not supporting  sanctions against Russia. Ramaphosa said: “Chancellor Scholz and I had a few good minutes in our tête-à-tête and we talked about a  number of issues, including the conflict between Russia and  Ukraine. I was quiet heartened by the explanation  he gave with regards to the stance Germany has taken.” Ramaphosa said Scholz  understands the positions taken by  other countries. “There are number of countries which in the majority supported the stance  taken at the UN General Assembly. He understands  the reasons  each  country has articulated for voting in favour of Russia and for abstaining. “The position  we took was that we would like negotiations, dialogue and engagement  with Russia on this matter or between the two countries. We have been fairly consistent on that because we know very well the value of dialogue, negotiation and collaboration as in many ways it gave birth to our  own democracy.” Ramaphosa said SA is in the position it is today because of dialogue, negotiation and collaboration between belligerent entities. “We were pitted against each other by the apartheid government regime. It was only  dialogue and negotiation that brought an end to the conflict, and that is the position  we have articulated.” This is a position  Ramaphosa has articulated to  Russian President Vladimir Putin, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, US President Joe Biden, China’s President Xi Jinping and French President Emmanuel Macron. He said: “It is this position  I believe should be the order of the day. It is for that reason  we say we would like  this conflict to end and one of the best ways  is calling for the cessation of hostilities, and that should be achieved through negotiation. Once there is a  cease fire, we will be  able to get the two belligerent parties into serious negotiations.” Regarding the sanctions imposed on Russia, Ramaphosa said: “These are having an overarching impact even on  countries that are  bystanders or not part of the conflict. They are also going to suffer from the sanctions  imposed on Russia.” He said the sanctions  imposed against SA  during apartheid were different. “What  succeeded was negotiations. Negotiations brought an end to the apartheid nightmare and conflict, and Chancellor Scholz understands the position  we have taken.” Scholz said it was important to discuss the global repercussions of the war. “I believe  it was a good decision for the G20 to invite Zelenskyy. It’s an important step  and we need to talk about  further steps closer the G20 summit. We decided to impose  sanctions against Russia to convince them to stop the war.  We have decided  to stop the import of coal in Europe and  Germany in autumn  this year.” He said sanctions include stopping imports of   of Russian oil. “In the case of the EU, we are discussing this  because  some countries t have difficulties to solve because of infrastructure.” Asked whether he thought African Union chair Macky Sall’s meeting with Putin and Zelenskyy will assist  to bring the two leaders to the negotiation table, Ramaphosa said: “It was  decided  Sall should travel to Russia, but we also said he must travel to  Ukraine so it is not a one-sided  visit.” Ramaphosa said the visit is important because “Africa has a role to play because it has access to both leaders  to foster the  process of dialogue and negotiation. ” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.